README.md, before:

nanoexec - nanomsg based command execution
------------------------------------------

This repository contains a simple client/server "thing" which allows
for the execution of remote commands via a shared [nanonmsg](http://nanomsg.org/) queue.

In brief:

* There is a central host creates a queue through which commands can be broadcast.
* There are an arbitrary number of listeners, which subscribe to the master-queue.
   * When a message is seen for the current host it will be executed.

How is this useful?  Well it could allow client-side operations to be remotely
initiated by a central host.

For example I have a sysadmin tool called [Slaughter](http://www.steve.org.uk/Software/slaughter/), which is something like cfengine, but without the client-server part.  Each host must have a crontab entry installed to run the tool once an hour or so.

If _this_ system were installed on all managed nodes then the central hub could instruct them to trigger execution immediately.



Setup
-----

One host will be called "master.example.com", that is the central host.

All other hosts will connect to this host, and await the arrival of messages.
When a message is received it will be executed via `system()`.

On each host you wish to be able to receive/execute commands you should
compile and execute `nanoexec`, specifying the details of the master.

For example:

    # ./nanoexec tcp://master.example.com:4444
    Filtering on hostname: host1.example.com

On the master host itself you can now inject commands to _any_ of the listening
hosts:

    # ./trigger host1.example.com:uptime

You'll note that commands have to be specified for the full hostname of the
master.  It would be trivial to add a second filter to the managed hosts to
allow:

   # ./trigger ALL:id

But that has not yet been done.


Security
--------

You'll want to open the port which is used for communication, `4444` in the
example(s) above.

You'll want to open that port only to managed nodes, since there is an
obvious security risk.

If you choose a high-port it is not necessary for either the listener
or the injector to run as root.


Building
--------

There is a debian package of the nanomsg library, it is not available for
Wheezy but backports cleanly:

* https://packages.debian.org/libnanomsg0


Steve
--

Commit message:

Allow triggering a command on all hosts.
  This is done by updating the filter.

README.md, after:

nanoexec - nanomsg based command execution
------------------------------------------

This repository contains a simple client/server "thing" which allows
for the execution of remote commands via a shared [nanonmsg](http://nanomsg.org/) queue.

In brief:

* There is a central host creates a queue through which commands can be broadcast.
* There are an arbitrary number of listeners, which subscribe to the master-queue.
   * When a message is seen for the current host it will be executed.

How is this useful?  Well it could allow client-side operations to be remotely
initiated by a central host.

For example I have a sysadmin tool called [Slaughter](http://www.steve.org.uk/Software/slaughter/), which is something like cfengine, but without the client-server part.  Each host must have a crontab entry installed to run the tool once an hour or so.

If _this_ system were installed on all managed nodes then the central hub could instruct them to trigger execution immediately.



Setup
-----

One host will be called "master.example.com", that is the central host.

All other hosts will connect to this host, and await the arrival of messages.
When a message is received it will be executed via `system()`.

On each host you wish to be able to receive/execute commands you should
compile and execute `nanoexec`, specifying the details of the master.

For example:

    # ./nanoexec tcp://master.example.com:4444
    Filtering on hostname: host1.example.com

On the master host itself you can now inject commands to _any_ of the listening
hosts:

    # ./trigger host1.example.com:uptime

If you want to mass-broadcast you could also use the magic string "`ALL:`":

    # ./trigger ALL:uptime



Security
--------

You'll want to open the port which is used for communication, `4444` in the
example(s) above.

You'll want to open that port only to managed nodes, since there is an
obvious security risk.

If you choose a high-port it is not necessary for either the listener
or the injector to run as root.


Building
--------

There is a debian package of the nanomsg library, it is not available for
Wheezy but backports cleanly:

* https://packages.debian.org/libnanomsg0


Steve
--
